[music]
>> Hi. Welcome to another video.
So, today I want to talk about a GitHub
repo that looks extremely simple on the
surface.
But I think it is actually one of the
more useful things you can add to your
AI coding workflow right now.
It is called Andrej Karpathy skills.
Now, despite the name, this is not
really about some giant bundle of flashy
skills or crazy automation.
The main idea is actually much simpler
than that.
It is basically a lightweight
instruction layer derived from Andrej
Karpathy's observations about how coding
agents usually fail.
And if you have used AI coding tools for
any real work, you already know exactly
what he means.
These agents often make assumptions too
quickly. They over-engineer simple
tasks. They edit files they were never
asked to touch. They sound confident
even when they are confused. And
sometimes they will happily create 500
lines of architecture when 50 lines
would have solved the problem. So, let's
get right into it. What this repo tries
to do is fix that behavior at the
instruction level. According to the
readme, the whole thing is centered
around four principles. The first one is
think before coding. This basically
means the agent should not silently
guess what you meant. If something is
ambiguous, it should surface the
ambiguity, ask the right clarifying
question, or at least show the
trade-offs instead of just charging
ahead. The second one is simplicity
first. This is one of my favorite parts
because a lot of AI coding tools still
have this weird urge to overbuild
everything. This repo pushes the agent
to write the minimum code needed to
solve the problem. No speculative
abstractions, no giant framework for a
one function task, no trying to be
clever for no reason. The third
principle is surgical changes, and
this one is super important. The agent
should only touch what is necessary for
the task. It should not randomly clean
up unrelated code, rewrite comments,
refactor adjacent functions, or improve
stuff that was not part of the request.
And then the fourth principle is
goal-driven execution. This is basically
about turning vague requests into
verifiable outcomes. So, instead of just
saying fix the bug and hoping for the
best, the agent should think in terms of
success criteria.
Reproduce the bug, make the fix, verify
that it works, and then stop. So, this
is kind of great because what you're
really installing here is not a feature.
You're installing discipline. That is
why I think this repo matters. It is not
trying to make the model sound smarter.
It is trying to make the workflow more
reliable. And to be honest, that is what
most people actually need.
Now, let me explain what this thing
actually is in practice. The repo is
basically centered around a single
Claude.md file, plus a plugin install
path for Claude code. So, this is not
some giant complicated setup. It is
intentionally lightweight.
You can use it in two main ways. The
first way is the Claude code plugin
path, which is the recommended option in
the repo. The readme says you first add
the marketplace with plugin marketplace
add forest chang andrej karpathy skills,
and then install it with plugin install
andrej karpathy skills at karpathy
skills. That makes it available as a
Claude code plugin. So, the guidelines
can be used across your projects. The
second way is the simpler per project
route. If you want it only inside one
repo, you can just download the
Claude.md file directly into your
project. For new project, the readme
shows this. And if you already have a
Claude.md,
you can append it instead of replacing
your existing project instructions. So,
the setup itself is actually very easy.
But now the more important question is,
how do you use it?
And this is the part that I think people
misunderstand.
You do not really use this like some
separate feature where you type a fancy
command every time.
You install it once, and then it changes
how your agent behaves during normal
work. So, for example, let us say I ask
my coding agent to add a billing
dashboard.
Without these kinds of guidelines, a lot
of agents will just start coding
immediately. They create tables, API
routes, webhooks, UI components,
validation, maybe even some settings
pages, all in one go.
And then you have to inspect a giant
diff and figure out what on earth it
just did. With these Karpathy-inspired
guidelines in place, the ideal behavior
is very different. The agent should
first clarify the scope. Are we talking
one-time payments or subscriptions? What
provider are we using? Do we need a full
dashboard or just a read-only billing
summary? What is the minimal version
needed right now?
Then it should keep the solution simple.
Then it should make only the necessary
edits. Then it should verify the result
with a concrete check, a test, or some
kind of success criteria.
That is the real usage pattern. You are
basically giving the agent a better
default operating system for engineering
work. Now, there's also a nice practical
way to know if it is actually working.
If you install this and your agent
starts asking better clarification
questions before writing code, that is a
good sign. If your diffs get smaller and
more focused, that is a good sign. If it
stops randomly refactoring neighboring
files that had nothing to do with the
task, that is a very good sign. And if
it starts thinking in terms of
verification instead of just I
implemented it, trust me, that is also
exactly what you want. So,
this is not really about adding power in
the usual sense. It is about removing
failure modes.
And that is why I like it. Now, briefly,
I want to mention how I think about this
with Verdant because I do use Verdant,
and that is why I would configure it
there, too.
I would not frame it as installing it
exactly the same way inside Verdant. I
would frame it more as porting the
philosophy.
Since Verdant already lets you define
project context, rules, and agent
behavior, I would just take these same
four principles and place them into my
Verdant instruction setup, so the agents
follow the same discipline there, as
well.
So, the point is not really Verdant
itself. The point is that these
guidelines are portable. If your tool
gives you a place for rules, agent
memory, or system level instructions,
you can usually carry the same ideas
over.
And that is one of the biggest strengths
of this repo. It is not tied to some
magical proprietary feature. It is a
reusable way of making AI coding agents
behave more like careful engineers.
Now, one more thing I want to say here
is that this repo is valuable even if
you never install it exactly as is
because the four principles are just
solid advice for prompting coding agents
in general. Think before coding. Keep it
simple. Change only what is necessary.
And define success clearly.
If you start prompting your agents with
that mindset, you will already get
better results. But if you actually
install the repo and bake those
principles into the tool itself, then
you do not have to remember to restate
them every single time. The discipline
is already there by default, which is
pretty good, for sure. So, my overall
take is this.
Andrej Karpathy skills is not a hype
repo. It is not trying to wow you with
some giant dashboard or some fancy
benchmark claim. It is solving a very
real problem, which is that coding
agents are often capable but badly
behaved. This gives them a better
behavioral framework. It helps reduce
wrong assumptions. It helps reduce
over-engineering. It helps reduce messy
diffs. And it pushes the agent toward
verifiable goal-driven execution. That
is useful in Claude code. That is useful
in any tool where you can inject rules.
And in my case, because I use Verdant,
too, I would absolutely carry the same
principles over there as part of my
configuration. So, yes, I think this is
worth trying. Overall, it's pretty cool.
Anyway, let me know your thoughts in the
comments. If you like this video,
consider donating through the super
thanks option or becoming a member
[music] by clicking the join button.
Also, give this video a thumbs up and
subscribe to my channel. I'll see you in
the next one. Until then, bye.
>> [music]